Verify Payments
In a nutshell
The Verify Transaction API allows you confirm the status of a customer's transaction.

Transaction statuses
Webhooks are the preferred option for confirming a transaction status, but we currently send webhook events for just successful transactions. However, a transaction can have the following statuses:

Status	Meaning
abandoned	The customer hasn't completed the transaction.
failed	The transaction failed. For more information on why, refer to the message/gateway response.
ongoing	The customer is currently trying to carry out an action to complete the transaction. This can get returned when we're waiting on the customer to enter an otp or to make a transfer (for a pay with transfer transaction).
pending	The transaction is currently in progress.
processing	Same as pending, but for direct debit transactions.
queued	The transaction has been queued to be processed later. Only possible on bulk charge transactions.
reversed	The transaction was reversed. This could mean the transaction was refunded, or a chargeback was successfully logged for this transaction.
success	The transaction was successfully processed.
Verify a transaction
You do this by making a GET request to the Verify TransactionAPI endpoint from your server using your transaction reference. This is dependent on the method you used to initialize the transaction.

From Popup or mobile SDKs
You'll have to send the reference to your server, then from your server you call the verify endpoint.

From the Redirect API
You initiate this request from your callback URL. The transaction reference is returned as a query parameter to your callback URL.

Helpful Tip
If you offer digital value like airtime, wallet top-up, digital credit, etc, always confirm that you haven't already delivered value for that transaction to avoid double fulfillments, especially, if you also use webhooks.

Here's a code sample for verifying transactions:


cURL
Show Response

#!/bin/sh
curl https://api.paystack.co/transaction/verify/:reference
-H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_SECRET_KEY"
-X GET
Warning
The API response has a status key response.status indicating the status of the API call. This is not the status of the transaction. The status of the transaction is in the data object in the verify API response, i.e response.data.status. Learn more about Paystack API format.